The President:
Hi, everybody.
This Monday, I'm heading to
Alaska for a three-day tour
of the state.
I've been looking forward
to this for a long time.
Not only because Alaska is
one of the most beautiful
places in a country that's
full of beautiful places -
but because I'll have
several opportunities to
meet with everyday Alaskans
about what's going
on in their lives.
I'll travel throughout the
state, meeting with Alaskans
who live above the Arctic
Circle, with Alaska natives,
and with folks who earn
their livelihoods through
fishing and tourism.
And I expect to learn a lot.
One thing I've learned so
far is that a lot of these
conversations begin
with climate change.
And that's because Alaskans
are already living
with its effects.
More frequent and
extensive wildfires.
Bigger storm surges as
sea ice melts faster.
Some of the swiftest
shoreline erosion in the
world - in some places, more
than three feet a year.
Alaska's glaciers are
melting faster too,
threatening tourism and
adding to rising seas.
And if we do nothing,
Alaskan temperatures are
projected to rise between
six and twelve degrees by
the end of the century,
changing all sorts of
industries forever.
This is all real.
This is happening to our
fellow Americans right now.
In fact, Alaska's governor
recently told me that four
villages are in "imminent
danger" and have
to be relocated.
Already, rising sea levels
are beginning to swallow
one island community.
Think about that.
If another country
threatened to wipe out
an American town, we'd do
everything in our power
to protect ourselves.
Climate change poses the
same threat, right now.
That's why one of the things
I'll do while I'm in Alaska
is to convene other nations
to meet this threat.
Several Arctic nations have
already committed to action.
Since the United States and
China worked together to set
ambitious climate targets
last year, leading by
example, many of the world's
biggest emitters have come
forward with new climate
plans of their own.
And that's a good sign as we
approach this December's
global climate
negotiations in Paris.
Now, one of the ways
America is leading is by
transitioning away from
dirty energy sources that
threaten our health and our
environment, and by going
all-in on clean, renewable
energy sources like wind
and solar.
And Alaska has the natural
resources to be a global
leader in this effort.
Now even as we accelerate
this transition, our
economy still has to
rely on oil and gas.
As long as that's the case,
I believe we should rely
more on domestic production
than on foreign imports, and
we should demand the highest
safety standards in the
industry - our own.
Still, I know there are
Americans who are concerned
about oil companies
drilling in environmentally
sensitive waters.
Some are also concerned with
my administration's decision
to approve Shell's
application to drill a well
off the Alaskan coast, using
leases they purchased before
I took office.
I share people's concerns
about offshore drilling.
I remember the BP
spill in the Gulf of
Mexico all too well.
That's precisely why my
administration has worked to
make sure that our oil
exploration conducted under
these leases is done at the
highest standards possible,
with requirements
specifically tailored to
the risks of
drilling off Alaska.
We don't rubber-stamp
permits.
We made it clear that Shell
has to meet our high
standards in how they
conduct their operations -
and it's a testament to how
rigorous we've applied those
standards that Shell has
delayed and limited its
exploration off Alaska while
trying to meet them.
The bottom line is, safety
has been and will continue
to be my administration's
top priority when it comes
to oil and gas exploration
off America's precious
coasts - even as we push our
economy and the world to
ultimately transition off of
fossil fuels.
So I'm looking forward
to talking with Alaskans
about how we can work together
to make America the global
leader on climate change
around the globe.
And we're going to offer
unique and engaging ways for
you to join me on
this trip all week at
WhiteHouse.gov/Alaska.
Because what's happening in
Alaska is happening to us.
It's our wakeup call.
And as long as I'm
President, America will lead
the world to meet the threat
of climate change before
it's too late.
Thanks, and have a
great weekend.